#summary How to compile CBO

= Requirements =

== Install depot_tools ==

Follow the documentation from Chromium build:
http://dev.chromium.org/developers/how-tos/install-depot-tools.

== Install CMake ==

Follow the install steps for CMake:
http://www.cmake.org/cmake/help/install.html.


= Checkout the sources =

== Windows ==

Create a directory to hold your source code. This example assumes c:\llvm-cbo,
but other names are fine.

*Important:* Make sure the full directory path has no spaces.

In a shell window, execute the following commands:

<code language="xml">
cd c:\llvm-cbo
gclient config http://clone-based-opts.googlecode.com/svn/trunk
</code>

To download the initial code, update your checkout as described below.

== Linux ==

Pick a directory for your build.  We will call this directory $LLVM_CBO_ROOT
below.

Check out the code:

<code language="xml">
$ cd $LLVM_CBO_ROOT
$ gclient config http://clone-based-opts.googlecode.com/svn/trunk
</code>

To download the initial code, update your checkout as described in next
section.

== Mac OSX ==

Create a directory to hold the code.  This example assumes the directory is
~/llvm-cbo, but other names are fine.  Note that if you have FileVault enabled,
you'll want to either disable it or put the code in a folder outside the home
directory, as otherwise Xcode will be very slow or hang.  You also probably
want to disable Spotlight indexing for that folder (System Preferences ->
Spotlight -> mark the folder as private).

From a shell in the Terminal, execute the following commands: 

<code language="xml">
$ cd ~/llvm-cbo
$ gclient config http://clone-based-opts.googlecode.com/svn/trunk
</code>

To download the initial code, update your checkout as described below.


= Update to the latest revision =

The first time you execute gclient, there will be a delay (a minute or so)
while it updates the depot tools.

In a shell window, execute the following commands:

<code language="xml">
cd llvm-cbo
gclient sync
</code>

To update to a specific revision, use

<code language="xml">
gclient sync --revision trunk@####
</code>

and the DEPS file will make sure you get the other directories in their
matching forms.


= Create the build using CMake =

Create a directory to contain the build:

<code language="xml">
cd llvm-cbo/trunk
mkdir build && cd build
</code>

Now, run CMake to generate the project build scripts for you:

<code language="xml">
cmake ..
</code>

This will generate the build using the default CMake generator for your
platform. It will be GNU Makefiles if you are using Linux or Mac OSX, and
Visual Studio (auto detected) if Windows.

If you are using Mac OSX and would like to use Xcode to build the code, use
this command instead:

<code language="xml">
cmake -G Xcode ..
</code>

And, if you would like to use a specific Visual Studio version, in case you
have more than one, then use the following command:

<code language="xml">
cmake -G "Visual Studio 9 2008" ..
</code>

Check the CMake documentation for more build options.

Now that you have the build, use it to build LLVM and the embedded CBO passes.
Typically, on Linux you would do:

<code language="xml">
make
</code>

If you have selected to use Xcode, you can open the workspace using it, or you
can just execute the command-line build:

<code language="xml">
xcodebuild
</code>

If you have used the Visual Studio generator, just open VS and point it to the
solution recently created by CMake.